Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to learn how to add localization or translations to our JavaScript.
Let me explain what I mean.
So you might remember in an earlier lesson, we used the logo translate plugin to make the output or
content of our files flexible from a language perspective.
You might remember if I click into here, I had a plugin called Test Plugin.
And remember, I set up a Spanish translation just for a few phrases for that plugin.
So we've already learned how to make our flexible in terms of translations.
Well, now in this video, we want to do the same thing.
But for JavaScript.
So let's do this.
Let's continue to work on our featured professor, plug in and just add one more detail to it.
So right now, I'm editing a blog post.
And if you add a new instance, so a new fresh copy of the Professor Call-out, see this message right
here that says select a professor, imagine.
I want that to be easy to translate.
So imagine I want to translate my plugin into Spanish and provide a Spanish translation for select a
professor.
Now, the whole point of this video is that this text is being output with JavaScript not.
So how would we do this?
How would we accomplish this?
Well, even though this element is powered by JavaScript, we do still need to begin with PHP, just
in terms of telling WordPress that our plugin supports translations at all in the first place.
Now, we've already done this once earlier in the course, but practice makes perfect, so let's try
it again.
So in our main file, so featured Professor P up in the very top comment area, we just need to provide
a domain path and a text domain.
So let's first say text domain Colen and let's just call it featured Dasch Professor.
OK, dropdown, let's say domain path, colon slash languages.
Let's go ahead and create a new empty folder in our sidebar.
So new folder to just name it languages.
OK, and then in our init function so it's named on init.
Scroll down a little bit and look for that so you'll know it's the right function.
If you see register Medda, register script style register block type maybe right above register Medda
let's say load plug in text domain semicolon.
First we give it the name we chose which just a moment ago we chose featured Dasch Professor comma.
The next argument, we just give it a value of false.
Now even the official WordPress documentation doesn't perfectly explain what's going on here.
So for now, I'm just happy with the value of false.
And then the third argument is where we just point towards that languages folder so we can say der name,
call that inside the parentheses, just say plug in underscore based name, which is a function itself.
Give it the file.
Constancio underscore, underscore, file, underscore, underscore.
Now after these two closing parentheses, but before the third closing parentheses we can add on a string
of text languages.
So altogether this is going to return the directory that the current file is in and then we're just
adding on languages.
Cool.
At this point, WordPress is now aware that this plugin supports translations.
So let's save this file and now let's actually jump into the JavaScript side of things.
So in our Sarsae folder, let's go in index jazz up at the very top.
We want to import something new.
Well, I'm actually not going to import it.
I'm just going to create a shortcut from the global scope of WordPress.
So we'll say consed underscore underscore equals wp dot i eighteen mn dot underscore underscore.
So essentially WordPress is making this available on the global scope and I'm just creating a shortcut
to it so that whenever I want to use it, I don't have to type all of this.
We can instead just type this.
The reason I'm looking for it directly in the global scope instead of using this import from syntax
is because I've seen that the logo translate plugin doesn't work perfectly unless we look for it directly
like this.
Anyways, we now have this underscore, underscore tool that we can use.
So remember the task at hand.
We want to make this select a professor text translatable so down in our joysticks.
Just scroll down and find that we're looking for the select element.
So right inside there, the first option says Select a professor.
So we could just hollow out that value, instead have curly brackets inside there, we would just use
our underscore, underscore tool.
It's a function, so call it and then we give it to arguments.
The first argument is the original text, which is select a professor.
The second argument is the text domain of your plugin.
So we chose a value of featured Dasch professor as our text domain.
Really quick.
I do want to point out that it's not as if you can only use this underscore underscore tool within curly
brackets here.
That's just what we're doing in this example.
But you're free to use the underscore underscore basically anywhere in your JavaScript.
OK, but we can go ahead and save this.
And now let's go use logo translate to create a template for this plug in.
So back in the WordPress admin dashboard towards the bottom of the left hand side bar, we're looking
for logo translate in before we actually create a template.
We do want to go into the settings of logo translate so you should see it in the hover menu here.
Or if you click on the logo, translate first, then in this menu just click on settings.
OK, now this is the option we're interested in.
So it says scan javascript files with extensions and by default it's blank.
So we just want to type into this field.
J.S. This way it will actually look at and work with our JavaScript files.
So with that in place, let's go down to the bottom and click save settings.
OK, now we're ready to actually create the language template for this plug in so we can click on the
main logo, translate menu option.
We're looking for our featured professor plug in.
So if you scroll down under running plug ins here, I can see it featured.
Professor Blacktip, let's click that.
OK, before we create the translation, we first need to click create template.
It's letting me know it found six files to scan.
You can see the largest one is nine kilobytes.
That's most definitely my JavaScript file.
So that's great.
Local translate is aware of our JavaScript.
Lets go ahead and click create template.
OK, and now at this point I'm going to create an example, Spanish translation.
So I'll click new language for the first option here.
Select language.
I'm going to select Spanish Mexico.
I am happy with the default option for this.
Choose a location.
I do absolutely want the files to be stored in my plug in languages folder.
Perfect.
Let's click, start translating.
OK, in this list, the only one I'm actually going to provide a translation for right now is Select
a professor, so I'll click on that.
And then if I scroll down the Spanish translation text box, I'll just click in there and I'll paste
in my translation.
OK, now let's save our progress.
So back up towards the top.
I'll just click this save button and I'm ready to test this out now.
So I'm going to go into my WordPress settings.
So not logo translate, but just WordPress as a whole.
So settings and go into general and I'm just going to set my entire WordPress site to use Spanish so
I can really test that out.
About halfway down the page I see site language, so I'll just change that to Spanish of Mexico.
OK, let me click save changes and now let's go test out our block type so I'll go into and Trada for
posts and if I go into my yet another post and try to insert a new instance of the featured Professor
Blacktip.
So maybe right after this one if I just click Professor Call-out.
Oops, we see it's not using our translation.
So local translate was obviously aware of that piece of translated text.
However, the final step is for you and I to connect the dots between our JavaScript and sort of the
WordPress translation system as a whole.
So let me show you how we do this within our plugins main file.
Remember our on init function where we're loading the text domain and registering our meta in our script
and our style in our blacktip.
We'll do this with me right after these lines where we're registering our script in style.
Let's add a new line and we're going to use a WordPress function called WP Set Script translations semicolon
in the parentheses.
We give it three arguments.
So the first is the handle name of your script.
So our script has a short name or handle name of featured professor script.
So that's what we would use for the first argument here.
The second argument is the text domain you want to work with.
So ours is feature dash professor.
And then the third argument is just pointing towards the languages folder.
So instead of C that would be plug in Der path, call that inside there, give it underscore, underscore,
file, underscore, underscore.
In between those two closing parentheses will concatenate on a string of text with just slash languages.
OK, so altogether this new line of code is just saying, hey, WordPress, this JavaScript file, Evars.
Well we want to tie it to the translation system and here's where our language files are located.
So as soon as we save this and now back in the edit screen, if I reload and now if I go try to insert
a new instance of that block type.
So right here, if I click Professor Call-out perfect.
There is our Spanish translation for Select a Professor.
So you are free to use that underscore underscore tool anywhere in your JavaScript and it will work
just like what we've set up in this lesson.
And that is going to bring not only this lesson but this chapter on JavaScript to a close.
In our next lesson, we're starting a brand new chapter when it comes to WordPress plugin development.
And we're going to be talking about databases or in other words, when it makes sense to use our own
custom database table.
This should be a lot of fun.
In many situations.
You can really increase the speed and performance of your plugin.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.